You're like, great, does it work now?
No, cuz we created it on nginx.
We created the server itself
to handle the WebSocket.
But the client,
the people actually using our web page,
don't know anything about this,
cuz we didn't send them any data.
So we need to create a WebSocket
connection in the index.html page that
allows it to deal with
our WebSocket connection.
And this one is pretty,
I won't say straightforward, but
it's not as complex, and
we'll walk through it right now.
So in index.html, I actually do need
to write it proper HTML right here,
because I need to write a script tag.
It's html, you don't have to get fancy.
You can give it a head.
You don't have to use it, give it a body.
But really all we need is the script tag.
So what I want to do is, all we have
to do is, we've set the protocol for
the WebSocket connection.
There's a difference between a WebSocket
connection over HTTP versus HTTPS.
So we want it to work on both.
And then all we have to do is say,
where's the WebSocket connecting to?
That's actually it.
And then we'll add a bonus we
want to respond to our messages,
as in the console log everything,
otherwise that data just gets dropped.
That sounds complicated?
It's not too bad.
So we'll say let ws, And
let's say const proto,
cuz we want to choose the protocol
we're connecting to at this point.
And we can pull the protocol
from the window.location
objects, Which has the protocol.
It'll tell us if it's HTTPS or HTTP.
And we'll say if it's https, We wanna
say WebSocket Secure, WSS,
that's the actual name for
it Sorry, that's wss, is the protocol.
Otherwise it's just a regular
Websocket connection over HTTP.
And that's how we should choose
a protocol for WebSocket,
and it'll work on either port 80 or
port 443.
All right, next,
we need to create the WebSocket,
which is a built-in object in the window,
in the dom.
So we'll say ws, that thing we created
earlier, we'll say new WebSocket.
Pretty cool, it's already built in.
Next, we wanna give it the protocol and
where to connect to.
So we're just gonna use the proto
object we created earlier.
Proto, it's just a string
telling us how to
connect,:// And
because we're not doing anything fancy,
we're just connecting to
the WebSocket at the route.
We're gonna say window, .location.
And our host, which is just gonna give us
our domain name back And close it all up.
And the very last thing we need to do
is we just need to get our WebSocket to
respond to any messages
we get from the server.
Other than that,
we can send messages all day.
How is the client ever
gonna know about it?
And this isn't necessarily,
it doesn't have to be a step.
So what's something we
can do with WebSocket?
We could, say, trigger an action on the
page, like a page update or page render or
something like that.
In that case,
the client doesn't really need to know,
the WebSocket is just
controlling that connection.
But for this really simple example, we
just wanna log out any messages that come
from the server, just to let us know
that our connection is working.
So we do that by saying onmessage,
And it's gonna take an event.
Don't need a parentheses, but stickler.
And we're just gonna say
console.log the event.data.
>> Should onmessage be camelcase?
>> No, that's just a shorthand.
You can also say ws.onfunction message.
The onmessage is just a shorthand for
doing that.
Okay, now the moment of truth where we see
where Jem made a mistake in his coding
somewhere.
So let's go ahead and fire up our server.
Hopefully, it won't
complain about anything.
All right, no complaints so far, but
we didn't actually use any WebSockets, so
we won't know if it works
until we try it out.
Let's give it a shot.
I'm gonna open my console.
Hey, worked the first time,
that almost never happens.
So congratulations to everybody
if you got it the first time.
If not, you're in good company,
it took me a while to get this down
path to make it work the first time.
We see it's messaging,
hey, our current servers,
because we told the client
to broadcast that.
We message that, welcome to my server.
But now,
what if we try something like this?
We see there are now two visitors,
cool, pretty cool.
And that's the power of a WebSocket,
is, one, it's all real-time.
We don't have to force refresh or force
an HTTP update or push it to the client.
It's all happening real time.
You can control the entire client via the
server, which is a really powerful idea.
We're just touching on it here.
But you see,
the WebSockets aren't too hard once
you understand it needs a protocol,
it needs to know what to happen when
it opens and closes, things like that.
Beyond that, it's on you,
you can build anything you want now.
Yeah, Brian Holt has
a course on real time.
I've used socket.io.
It's really powerful, but it's probably
a little more complex we need for this.
But if you're building real, real
WebSockets, it's a really great library,
that's usually my go-to.
So the last thing we need to do is we need
to push this, so the server can pull it
down, and we need to see if this
actually works on our domain.
So we need to tie it all together.
And this is where it gets interesting.
If we made any mistakes along the way,
it won't work.
Let's see, you never know, you never know
if I left a semicolon out somewhere.
So we'll jump back to VS Code.
I'm gonna start my server, Ctrl+C, clear.
Just do a git status so
I can see what I'm adding.
So I don't wanna add my node modules.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm gonna create a new file.
I'm gonna create a new gitignore file.
And you don't have to do this.
You're welcome to add your node modules.
I'm just a stickler.
And we're gonna say node modules.
We're gonna ignore that.
And I probably don't need to
commit my package lock either.
It's not super necessary.
Actually, I'll leave that in there.
I don't know what the server's gonna do.
So I'm just gonna say git add.,
I know people, if I post this on Twitter,
people will get upset I do git add.,
but I know what I'm doing.
So gitadd., is the lazy way of adding
all the files we just modified.
And then we're just gonna commit it,
git commit-am if we're adding
all those files we just added.
And then the m is the message, so
Created a WebSocket server.
And clients.
And then we're gonna just push it up.
And remember,
we have that cron job running, so
it should automatically pull in these
changes within a minute or two.
So I'm gonna jump back to my server.
I'm gonna ls, and
I'll wait, rm foo.
And there we go.
It pulled in automatically, so
our script is working just fine.
We're not quite there yet,
because remember,
what's the server that's running?
It's our simple server we wrote,
not our node server.
So we're gonna say pm2.
Remember the process manager?
We're just gonna stop app.js,
and it stopped, and
we're just gonna start it back up
with our new server, pm2 start.
And we're gonna use the index.ws file.
This time, I'm gonna say watch on it.
That way if we make any changes to our
code, to our server on our local and
then it pulls into our server, pm2 will
restart on watches, on changes to that
And cuz pm2 is awesome, it's saying,
hey this is something new,
these things aren't gonna restart,
we need to add it to the restart.
So we're gonna say pm2 save.
There we go.
So now our server should stay up and
running and it'll restart on load.
So now, the moment of truth,
does this all work?
Does this all hook together?
Let's find out.
So I'm going on my regular one here,
Bad Gateway.
I did something wrong here,
let's figure out what's going on.
Check my console, nothing obvious.
So what did I do that's incorrect?
Let's check it out.
So pm2 status.
So there's an error in my index.ws,
I wonder what that is?
So let me try running it by hand.
I forgot to npm install
after we did all that work.
It's the little things that will get you,
it's the little things.
So if we wanted to, we can update
our github.script to say pull and
then npm i every time.
Actually, let's go ahead and
do that now, just so
we don't run into this error again.
So I'm just gonna vi our github.script.
So once it's done pulling, I'm
just gonna npm i Then right-click.
That way, from now on, it'll always
stay in sync with package json.
So now, address in use,
something else using it.
That's probably pm2 is still using it.
So I'm gonna say pm2 status, yeah.
So the minute we modified our file or any
of the file system itself, pm2 is like,
hey, you're not erroring anymore.
Let me bring it back online,
because that's what it's supposed to do.
So now let's check it out.
Hey, it's working.
And ignore the favicon, that's just
browsers, they're gonna do that to you.
So did everybody get this far?
What are the errors you run into?
There's always the common errors.
Remember, I've done this a few times,
so I've made most of the mistakes.
Any errors you all are running into?
>> Those extra logs are me
hitting your server.
>> What's that?
>> The extra logs in there
are me hitting your server.
>> Nice, I didn't even notice.
Yes, if you go to jemstock.lol,
we'll see more people on the server.
Now, if we really wanna spend more
time on WebSockets, we can make it so
we can message each other.
So I type the message and it goes out
to everybody, connect to the server.
And then in that way,
you just build a real time chat
application in just a few lines of code.
But we're not gonna go that deep today
cuz I wanna spend a little bit more
time on databases and docker,
and then load balancers.
But hopefully, you all are this far.
Did everything work?
>> So my console says there's
six current visitors, and
yours still says five, so
I wonder why the difference.
>> I wonder why the difference.
Mine says seven now.
>> If you refreshed, would it say eight?
>> It shouldn't.
>> Mine says seven as well.
>> Cuz it immediately drops
that connection and re-adds it.
Yours is at seven?
>> Yep.
>> All right, All right, look at you.
That's incredible.
You never probably would have thought this
earlier that you could create a WebSocket
connection, Update your nginx, and
now you have a real time connection
running through your very own
domain name on a brand new server.
And you wrote it all by hand.
So that's a very difficult accomplishment,
so good job.